# IBM Z Datathon 2025 (Imperial College London) [IBMLOND013]

This repository contains the code generated by Team 13 throughout the hackathon, where we aim to create a RAG-agentic system utilising RL to create a law-advising LLM for socio-economically disadvantaged communities. More details can be seen below.

---
## Problem Statement

The problem we're addressing is the lack of affordable legal assistance for many in the world, especially Americans (we will focus on solving this problem on a smaller scale for now (the US), and once demonstrated that the current solution work, we will scale to other countries). Hiring a lawyer in the U.S. can cost hundreds of dollars per hour, making legal services unattainable for low- and even middle-income individuals. As a result, it's shown that an estimated 80% of low-income Americans and up to 60% of middle-income Americans have legal needs that go unmet due to cost barriers (source: thenationaltriallawyers.org). Consequently, this justice gap means people, due to socioeconomic factors, often fail to get help for crucial issues like insurance disputes, medical bill claims, or housing problems, leading to devastating personal and financial consequences. For example, due to aging demographics worldwide, more and more families are facing exorbitant medical bills, and consequently, struggle to claim insurance coverage and hence risk bankruptcy. This unfortunate status quo favors those who can afford attorneys, while others are left without guidance on their rights or how to navigate complex federal processes. Hence, we believe that there is a clear need for a tech-for-good solution that democratises legal knowledge and empowers underserved populations to understand and assert their legal rights.

---
## Our Solution

Our solution is to build an AI-powered legal assistant using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system using foundation models (e.g. Qwen, Deepseek, Kimi, etc.). This system will combine a large language model with a legal document database, enabling it to search statutes, case law, and regulations to answer users’ questions with relevant evidence. By fine-tuning the model on legal texts and Q&A data, we ensure it understands legal context and terminology. We try to enable the assistant to accurately cite relevant law codes in its responses, grounding its advice via reference real-documents rather than guesswork (i.e. LLM hallucination). We aim for the model to also be capable of multi-step reasoning – conducting multi-turn searches to refine answers for complex queries. Moreover, we also plan to apply RLHF (reinforcement-learning by human-feedback) to further optimise the system's retrieval strategy and answer accuracy. By prioritising factual accuracy and providing real-document citations, our assistant will , ideally in most cases, reliably guide users through questions like “How do I appeal a denied insurance claim?” or “What are my rights after a traffic accident?”, etc. effectively empowering undeserved populations who cannot afford traditional legal help, which are expensive and exclusive.

---

Datasets on HuggingFace:
- Standardised XML source Data: https://huggingface.co/datasets/Xixi679/SupremeCourtJudgementCase_Data/tree/main
- Synthetic Data: https://huggingface.co/datasets/shng2025/IBM-Z-trail-1

---

Team Members:
- Shi Hao Ng (Leader)
- Ryan Deng
- Jack He
- Rou Yan Ng
- Davin Wong


